.TH ETERNAL 1 "2026-03-08" "eternal 0.1.0" "Eternal Wayland Compositor"
.
.SH NAME
eternal \- a modern Wayland compositor with scrollable tiling and animations
.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B eternal
.RB [ \-c
.IR config ]
.RB [ \-d ]
.RB [ \-v ]
.RB [ \-h ]
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Eternal
is a high-performance Wayland compositor featuring multiple tiling
layouts (scrollable, dwindle, master-stack, monocle, grid, spiral,
columns), spring and bezier curve animations, window rules, IPC control,
a plugin system, and comprehensive keybind configuration.
.PP
Eternal is designed for users who want a tiling compositor with smooth
animations and a modern feel, taking inspiration from Hyprland, Niri,
and Sway.
.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-c\  config
Path to the configuration file. Defaults to
.IR $XDG_CONFIG_HOME/eternal/eternal.kdl .
.TP
.B \-d
Enable debug logging. Equivalent to setting the
.B ETERNAL_LOG
environment variable to
.BR debug .
.TP
.B \-v
Print version information and exit.
.TP
.B \-h
Print usage help and exit.
.
.SH CONFIGURATION
The configuration file uses the KDL document language (https://kdl.dev).
The default configuration is installed to
.IR /usr/share/eternal/eternal.kdl
and can be copied to
.IR $XDG_CONFIG_HOME/eternal/eternal.kdl
for customization.
.PP
Key configuration sections:
.TP
.B general
General compositor settings (gaps, border width, layout, etc.)
.TP
.B input
Input device configuration (keyboard repeat rate, pointer acceleration, etc.)
.TP
.B decoration
Window decoration settings (borders, shadows, rounded corners, titlebar)
.TP
.B animation
Animation curves and durations for window movements, workspace transitions, etc.
.TP
.B binds
Keybind definitions (key combinations mapped to compositor actions)
.TP
.B rules
Window rules (match windows by title/class and apply settings)
.TP
.B workspaces
Workspace definitions and default layouts
.
.SH LAYOUTS
.TP
.B scrollable
Niri-style infinite horizontal scrolling layout with variable-width columns.
.TP
.B dwindle
Binary tree dwindle layout; each new window splits the current tile.
.TP
.B master
Master-stack layout with a configurable master area and orientation.
.TP
.B monocle
Fullscreen single-window layout with a window switcher.
.TP
.B grid
Equal-sized grid arrangement.
.TP
.B spiral
Fibonacci spiral tiling.
.TP
.B columns
Fixed equal-width column layout.
.
.SH IPC
When built with IPC support, Eternal listens on a Unix socket at
.IR $XDG_RUNTIME_DIR/eternal.sock .
.PP
The
.BR eternalctl (1)
CLI tool communicates with the compositor over this socket to query state
and dispatch commands.
.PP
Example commands:
.PP
.nf
eternalctl dispatch workspace 3
eternalctl dispatch focuswindow next
eternalctl query activewindow
eternalctl query workspaces
eternalctl reload
.fi
.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B ETERNAL_LOG
Set the log level:
.BR trace ", " debug ", " info ", " warn ", " error ", " critical .
.TP
.B WAYLAND_DISPLAY
The Wayland display socket name. Set automatically by Eternal on startup.
.TP
.B XDG_CONFIG_HOME
Base directory for user configuration. Defaults to
.IR $HOME/.config .
.TP
.B XDG_RUNTIME_DIR
Runtime directory for the IPC socket and Wayland socket.
.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I $XDG_CONFIG_HOME/eternal/eternal.kdl
User configuration file.
.TP
.I /usr/share/eternal/eternal.kdl
Default configuration file.
.TP
.I $XDG_RUNTIME_DIR/eternal.sock
IPC socket.
.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR eternalctl (1),
.BR wayland (7),
.BR wlroots (7),
.BR sway (1),
.BR hyprland (1)
.
.SH BUGS
Report bugs at https://github.com/eternal-wm/eternal/issues
.
.SH AUTHORS
The Eternal developers.
